we go to turn to a report by the Israeli
newspaper haret they spoke to officials
in the Israeli military about the
thousands of so-call terrorists they
claimed to have killed in Gaza and they
talked of kill zones or combat zones
these are invisible red lines in and
around areas of fighting or Israeli
military presence if anyone who's not
from the Israeli military crosses those
lines they get shot or killed that
includes Palestinian civilians and
they're branded as terrorists by Israeli
forces even if they've never a gun in
their Liv so it's not about what the
person did but where he was killed
according to the report their only crime
they breached an invisible line drawn by
the Israeli Army the revelations came
after aler obtained a distressing video
over a week ago which showed the moments
four unarmed Palestinians were killed by
an Israeli drone in car nunis the attack
reportedly took place in early February
a senior Israeli officer told heret they
were unarmed and didn't po a danger to
their forces in the area we saw similar
scenes last week aler obtained video
showing Israel forces shooting once
again at two unarmed Palestinians at
close range one of the men repeatedly
waved what appears to be a piece of
white fabric to show they're not a
threat this is an international symbol
of surrender the bodies of the two
Palestinians were then buried by an
Israeli
bulldozer let's take this on with
Anthony lonstein he's the author of The
Palestine laboratory a book on Israel's
arms and surveillance industry uh joins
us now live from Sydney Anthony thanks
for joining us here it's distressing to
watch those videos but these so-called
kill zones are a familiar mode of
operating for the Israeli Army aren't
they they are disturbingly so because
I've been reporting on this issue around
Gaza and Palestine for close to 20 years
and if you look at pretty much every
major Gaza War between Israel and Hamas
since pretty much 2009 you see after
those Wars Israeli soldiers speak to W
from the group of bling the silence
which is an Israeli NGO talking about
what they did and they regularly said
that Rules of Engagement were loose
beyond belief that killing civilians was
normal and this I think really doesn't
just go to the Rules of Engagement but
also to the permissive culture within
the Israeli military where over years so
few soldiers ever get prosecuted for any
kind of serious crimes this Al applies
to the West Bank so obviously this
current situation is on a scale that
we've never seen before in Palestine but
what we're seeing in this haret report
and I've been hearing also from my
sources a sadly familiar tale yeah the
Israeli argument is that in war lines
are blurred that you enter these zones
and you will get killed but the point is
people just don't know where the lines
are do
they they don't and I mean this is
exactly what the US was saying in Iraq
and Afghanistan after 911 when the us
was killing huge amounts of civilians
and again these invisible lines that
civilians don't know where they are and
Israel has a long track record long
before this current post October 7
environment of killing huge amounts of
Palestinian civilians in Gaza and the
West Bank and again this I think goes to
the heart of why the international
criminal court in the icj are looking
very seriously at these kinds of
examples because these kinds of Courts
can intervene when domestic courts do
not or cannot and it's pretty clear that
over years the Israeli courts have no
interest frankly in addressing these and
order the Israeli political
establishment or the media it's
important to note that this kind of
culture in Israel I spent years living
in Palestine that the culture within
Israel the Israeli media is not just
permissive but dehumanizes Palestinians
so as we've seen since October 7 huge
amounts of Israeli soldiers proudly
posting on the internet Tik Tok and
Instagram themselves dehumanizing
Palestinians blowing up Palestinian
homes that I think is directly connected
to these kinds of cases where so many
Palestinian civilians including those
who are literally waving White flags are
killed in Cold Blood are there rules of
operation in uh of Engagement Rules of
Engagement I should say in Israeli
operations or are they just open to
interpretation by whoever's commanding
that patch of
land all the Israeli military of course
said is that um there are in that harat
report they claim that they have very
strict rules of engagement and whenever
there is a case for example the recent
one of the icj Israel says very clearly
that they their soldiers must abide by
certain rules but what matters really is
the reality on the ground and not just
these Israeli soldiers talking to harats
in the last day or so but over years
years and years you have Israeli
soldiers talking about the idea that
because they realize that there's no
real punishment for killing Palestinians
or injuring them this is not just in
Gaza but the West Bank and East
Jerusalem and in fact military culture
is one that is Led from the top I mean
you had the Israeli defense minister and
indeed many in the Israeli military
establishments since October 7
Distributing literally leaflets talking
about how Israel is going in there to
cleanse their words Palestinians I mean
this is the culture that allows that
kind of inhumane killing and it's tragic
that over you know we're thinking now
about what 35 40,000 Palestinians killed
since October 7 a vast vast majority of
them are not terrorists they're
Palestinian civilians and yet Israel
keeps on claiming that about 9 to 10
thousand of those numbers are terrorists
when that figure is clearly massively
inflated you would think that anybody uh
walking in open land if they may well be
suspects as far as the Israelis are
concerned could just be arrested rather
than just blown
up well potentially I mean that of
course would be the logic iCal Humane
outcome but in the cases that alir has
screened in the last couple of weeks and
there have been many others that other
media Outlets have obtained we see cases
of Palestinian civilians just going to
try to retrieve items from their
destroyed homes or trying to get food
we've seen the various cases of Israel
targeting individuals who are trying to
get either food that's been dropped by
the Americans or others or food trucks
that are being brought in Via Rafa on
the Egyptian side so that would be the
logical outome but again there is no
accountability for these kinds of
killings and whether it's by drone or
quadcopter or simply Israel's opening
fire this is why International attention
and international prosecution is so
important now we cannot simply wait and
hope that the Israeli military or
establishment will investigate this
because history shows they will not
right it was that widespread
condemnation but nothing ever seems to
change anony I just want to bring you
back to our story about Al shiffer the
Israelis pulling out of Israeli Army
pulling out of the alifer hospital
complex where they have been for two
weeks as you know uh leaving Dreadful
destruction behind it's a second time
they've assaulted the area targeting
hospitals of course prohibited under
international law but again it is the
way the Israeli Army
operates and it's important to not that
the first time they went in there the
whole coverage was that they were
discovering a Hamas command and control
center which was not found at all the
second time in the last weeks they
claiming that huge amounts of Hamas and
Islamic Jihad Fighters were in there I
haven't seen much evidence for that
frankly but again as you rightly say it
is il legal to essentially bombard
destroy and attack a hospital where
there are thousands and thousands of
Palestinian civilians where the
hospitals in Gaza have already been
completely destroyed in the last months
and it seems yet again without
International intervention and the US
and Germany the two biggest arms dealers
that are selling weapons and giving
weapons to Israel until that stops until
that stops I fear that this war will
continue now Palestinian officials have
said that hundreds of Palestinians have
been killed in an round out shifer in
over the past couple of weeks what would
account for that high rate of casualties
do you
think or the fact that so many
Palestinians are Sheltering in the
hospitals I mean this has been the case
since October 7 there although the
hospitals have been targeted extensively
by the Israelis many civilians have
nowhere else to go because their homes
have been destroyed it's also not forget
it's winter still very cold and many
Palestinians need intense Medical Care
and hospitals are and there's nowhere
safe in Gaza but it's somewhere to go
and after these rallies pulled out of
aifer a few months ago the Hope was
obviously a false hope that alifer would
remain to be a safe place but clearly
it's not and again the idea that Israel
is not just bombing but air striking
areas around these hospitals it's not
just a breach of international law I
mean I saw this before medicine on
Frontier msf routinely saying that their
own teams are being targeted I mean this
is kind of the actions of a rogue State
not of a so-called democracy which
receives huge amounts of support from
the Western Elites to this
day Anthony I appreciate that thanks for
your knowledge anony larstein uh
speaking to us there from syney thank
you